Leviticus 9
1. And it came to pass on the eighth day, [that] Moses called Aaron and his sons, and the elders of Israel;
2. And he said unto Aaron, Take thee a young calf for a sin offering, and a ram for a burnt offering, without blemish, and offer [them] before the LORD.
3. And unto the children of Israel thou shalt speak, saying, Take ye a kid of the goats for a sin offering; and a calf and a lamb, [both] of the first year, without blemish, for a burnt offering;
4. Also a bullock and a ram for peace offerings, to sacrifice before the LORD; and a meat offering mingled with oil: for to day the LORD will appear unto you.
5. And they brought [that] which Moses commanded before the tabernacle of the congregation: and all the congregation drew near and stood before the LORD.

6. And Moses said, This [is] the thing which the LORD commanded that ye should do: and the glory of the LORD shall appear unto you.
7. And Moses said unto Aaron, Go unto the altar, and offer thy sin offering, and thy burnt offering, and make an atonement for thyself, and for the people: and offer the offering of the people, and make an atonement for them; as the LORD commanded.

8. Aaron therefore went unto the altar, and slew the calf of the sin offering, which [was] for himself.
9. And the sons of Aaron brought the blood unto him: and he dipped his finger in the blood, and put [it] upon the horns of the altar, and poured out the blood at the bottom of the altar:
10. But the fat, and the kidneys, and the caul above the liver of the sin offering, he burnt upon the altar; as the LORD commanded Moses.
11. And the flesh and the hide he burnt with fire without the camp.

12. And he slew the burnt offering; and Aaron's sons presented unto him the blood, which he sprinkled round about upon the altar.
13. And they presented the burnt offering unto him, with the pieces thereof, and the head: and he burnt [them] upon the altar.
14. And he did wash the inwards and the legs, and burnt [them] upon the burnt offering on the altar.

15. And he brought the people's offering, and took the goat, which [was] the sin offering for the people, and slew it, and offered it for sin, as the first.
16. And he brought the burnt offering, and offered it according to the manner.
17. And he brought the meat offering, and took an handful thereof, and burnt [it] upon the altar, beside the burnt sacrifice of the morning.

18. He slew also the bullock and the ram [for] a sacrifice of peace offerings, which [was] for the people: and Aaron's sons presented unto him the blood, which he sprinkled upon the altar round about,
19. And the fat of the bullock and of the ram, the rump, and that which covereth [the inwards,] and the kidneys, and the caul [above] the liver:
20. And they put the fat upon the breasts, and he burnt the fat upon the altar:
21. And the breasts and the right shoulder Aaron waved [for] a wave offering before the LORD; as Moses commanded.

22. And Aaron lifted up his hand toward the people, and blessed them, and came down from offering of the sin offering, and the burnt offering, and peace offerings.
23. And Moses and Aaron went into the tabernacle of the congregation, and came out, and blessed the people: and the glory of the LORD appeared unto all the people.
24. And there came a fire out from before the LORD, and consumed upon the altar the burnt offering and the fat: [which] when all the people saw, they shouted, and fell on their faces.

1. And Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, took either of them his censer, and put fire therein, and put incense thereon, and offered strange fire before the LORD, which he commanded them not.
2. And there went out fire from the LORD, and devoured them, and they died before the LORD.

3. Then Moses said unto Aaron, This [is it] that the LORD spake, saying, I will be sanctified in them that come nigh me, and before all the people I will be glorified. And Aaron held his peace.
4. And Moses called Mishael and Elzaphan, the sons of Uzziel the uncle of Aaron, and said unto them, Come near, carry your brethren from before the sanctuary out of the camp.
5. So they went near, and carried them in their coats out of the camp; as Moses had said.

6. And Moses said unto Aaron, and unto Eleazar and unto Ithamar, his sons, Uncover not your heads, neither rend your clothes; lest ye die, and lest wrath come upon all the people: but let your brethren, the whole house of Israel, bewail the burning which the LORD hath kindled.
7. And ye shall not go out from the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, lest ye die: for the anointing oil of the LORD [is] upon you. And they did according to the word of Moses.